we're about to hear from Tom Billy you
all know Tom incredible interviews from
impact Theory millions and millions and
millions of views and people's lives
changed probably some of the best
interviews we've ever experienced on the
Internet by far the best interaction
best questions absolutely incredible
energy
he's so rigorously committed to personal
development and growth and he genuinely
lives everything he says this guy is
like discipline to the maximum and of
course we all know what the incredible
Heights he achieved requests the
incredible heights I know he's going to
achieve with his incredible comic book
series called me on future so please put
your hands together for my very dear
friend and our next speaker Tom bill you
[Music]
Shetty the man yeah Jay Shetty offers to
intro you you take it that's just life
lesson number one alright so I want to
come on the heels of that last video and
talk about what is the single most
important breakthrough any of us are
going to have in our lives
and look it's getting late right now and
we have an opportunity we've got about
an hour together 45 minutes I guess
we've got 45 minutes together and what I
want to try to do over the next 45
minutes is really create a vibe to bring
us together to leverage that weird state
that you get into when it's late at
night
and you're a little bit tired and you're
open to something that you wouldn't
necessarily be open to at any other
point in your life so don't fringe out
on the edges don't start leaking away
like cosmic radiation come into the
centers get close because if we can pull
this off hopefully we can really start
to have some transformations what got me
interested in coming to this event and
being a part of it is that it was so
different James and staff flew out to
meet me to spend time with my wife and I
to paint a vision for what they wanted
to do that they wanted to create
something that would literally be a
journey that you guys would travel on
this emotionally yourselves that you
would see in these people that we've
been watching on the screen behind us
today and tomorrow and you would begin
to see the things in your life that
either needed to be changed perceptions
that needed to be broken through and as
you thought through that process and you
went through this journey with these
real people that you really began to
reflect on you and what it was you
needed to do to get where you want to go
and I talked a lot about the chasm that
stands between where you are today and
where you want to go and I'm here to
tell you it
just comes down to price there's a price
to pay to become somebody new there's a
price to pay for change and I've had a
lot of you come up to me and ask
questions and there's a look in people's
eye and I will tell you one of the
questions that hides behind what people
are actually saying is Tom am I going to
make it do I have what it takes when you
look into my future
can you see me making it and I'm gonna
cut to the chase for all of you and
you're a mistake what I'm about to say
for good news and then I'm gonna tell
you why it's actually the worst thing I
could tell you you all meet minimum
requirements you all meet minimum
requirements so whatever it is you want
to do I'm not gonna say that it's gonna
be easy for you because you're ultra
smart or something you probably aren't
but everyone that I've encountered here
literally without exception every single
person that has come up to me and said
something you meet minimum requirements
even you awkward [__] that have
a hard time like making eye contact even
you guys I'm telling you right now
you've got some [__] you're gonna have
to deal with but you meet minimum
requirements
now minimum requirements for what for
whatever you want
now that sounds great right oh [__]
Tom said I can make it this is amazing
but all I've actually said is now if you
don't make it it's on you and that's it
there's nobody else to blame everything
is your fault
everything the good stuff in your life
that's on you you did that you either
put yourself into position to deserve it
to be around people that want
to help to take care of you luck came by
you were able to capitalize on it
because like we talked about earlier
looks like a bus and another one's
coming but will you have the fare to get
on and maybe that's it maybe you just
got really lucky but she had the fare to
get on the bus and that's on you so you
should be very proud of the things that
you have in your life but all the things
in your life that aren't to your
satisfaction those are all your fault
and I'm gonna tell you a story and this
story pisses people off and it goes like
this
my wife who happens to be British big it
up for England let's say that she is
with her mom and she's in the bedroom
that she grew up in she's all safe and
sound the doors locked
the alarm is on her mom's in the next
room making sure that she's safe but
right then a meteorite comes screaming
through the atmosphere crashes into her
bedroom and kills her whose fault is
that I know some other [__] have
listened to my content I will tell you
that right now now if people don't know
me everybody goes to it's dumb luck
divine providence it's nobody's fault
how could you blame yourself well let me
tell you how I could blame myself and
when you hear the reality of this and
you realize that I am in no way shape or
form being hyperbolic
it actually is my fault here's why I
know right now there is an organization
that tracked what are called near-earth
objects in fact I'm on the board of the
XPrize one of the prizes that they're
trying to raise money for is for this
problem to track all these known objects
and to find some way lasers planted
nuclear explosions something to make
sure that if something is ever on a
collision course for Earth
that we can stop it literally four
weekends ago I had a chance to vote for
this to say this should be a prize and I
didn't so now not only have I never sent
a dime of my money to help I've never
sent an email with encouraging words
I've never called them up to tell them
what I think they should do now I
literally voted against them so if a
meteorite happens to kill my wife
I don't have anyone to blame but myself
that's so apparently true now I think
it's the right decision I think they're
putting the time and energy into
something that has such a vanishingly
slim possibility of actually happening
makes no sense you have to know where to
put your energies all of us have a
finite amount of energy so you at some
point have to triage and decide what are
the things that I'm going to attack I'm
far more worried about my wife getting
into a car the likelihood of her dying
is almost certainly going to be at this
point something to do with heart disease
or something to do with an aneurism
things like that it most certainly isn't
going to be a meteorite crashing through
the roof and killing her but if it did I
wouldn't waste time blaming anyone else
now the key here the key I wouldn't beat
myself up over it I would be crestfallen
my wife is my everything it would be a
loss so devastating I don't even want to
comprehend it but I just wouldn't waste
time blaming anyone else because the
reality is and let this come home your
life is the exact reflection of the
choices you have made love your life
great you've made awesome choices hate
your life
I'm sorry you've made bad choices but
the good news is you're in control and
that's why literally the first time I
wrote this whole article it was my first
blog article and it was all about how if
I were hit by a drunk driver I would
take ownership of that I would say that
is my fault and people were pissed and I
was so shocked I literally thought I
want to pull people from the matrix
what's the one gift that I could give
people that will change their life
forever
and I wrote this whole thing and I was
like talking about like oh man you're in
this spot and it ends up being a kill
box and there's cars on either side of
you in a car in front of you and your
horn dies and you can't even start your
car and move you look in the rearview
mirror and this drunk drivers plowing
down they smashed into you and it's all
your fault and thank God because now you
remember the year in control but people
thought I was victim shaming people were
outraged that I would say that that was
anyone's fault but the drunk driver but
I don't want to do that because I choose
not to ever be a victim I cannot choose
whether I'm victimized but I have the
ability to say I will never be a victim
because there's always something you can
do differently there is always something
you can do differently and once you
understand that you can always make a
different choice and get a different
reaction and that's the power in your
life that's the power that you have is
no matter what's going on you can choose
to think differently believe differently
see differently all of those things are
a choice Reid man's search for meaning
by Viktor Frankl lost his whole family
to the Holocaust was in I think five
different concentration camps and he
said the thing that people die of in a
concentration camp is the loss of a why
and Nietzsche said if you have a Y you
can survive almost any how because you
can always change how you
think about something and when you
change how you think about it's what
we've been talking about all day when
you change how you think about it you
actually change the event and I want you
guys to see this I want you to see the
voice of a victim in this next clip
let's watch this is the task that we all
have we all go through difficult things
horrible things heartbreaking things the
kinds of things that we wouldn't wish on
somebody else but the job that we all
have is in the face of that we have to
construct a narrative about it that
moves us forward and this is why I'm
such a firm believer that you should do
and believe that which moves you towards
your goals people get the do part they
understand their action should be
actions that take them towards what they
want to accomplish but people often miss
the most important part which is only to
believe things that move you towards
your goals and I see people every day
that tell themselves the story about
themselves that they are worthless that
they're meaningless that they're
pointless that their friends and family
would be better off if they just died so
we have to find a way to construct a
narrative about ourselves that empowers
us that lifts us up even though even
though we make mistakes even though we
fall down even though we're never going
to get things right all the time and
even though terrible things happen to us
or maybe we do terrible things but in
that the erosion of the self that's the
danger the erosion of the self that is
the danger and when I talk to people
about the 80/20 principle 80% of the
time you should be focused on the things
that you love the beautiful things that
you want to bring to this world the
beautiful things that are already in the
world and 20
of the time you should be kicking
yourself in your ass and saying you can
do better it's such a powerful idea but
the problem is when people get to the
20% they forget that it's only supposed
to be 20% of the time and that it's
meant to be these acute moments where
you're pushing yourself to be more to do
more it isn't so you can tear yourself
down that's why you have to do and
believe that which moves you towards
your goals and of thinking that you're a
worthless piece of [__] moves you to
your goals somehow then fine do it but I
can't literally fathom a universe in
which that would be a logical way to
move forward so I'm gonna give you the
magic words that you need right now to
never fall prey to that believing I'm
worthless does not serve me and I don't
do things that don't serve me repeat
that in your head every time you begin
to disparage yourself because here's the
problem you're gonna believe it's true
you're going to believe that you really
are worthless that you've really done
something that makes you worthy of
punishment that means you ought to
suffer and in that moment you're never
gonna be able to convince yourself that
that's not true
so you need something else that's going
to get you off the hook and it has to be
that core belief system in your life a
belief system that you put in place when
you were emotionally sober and you said
to yourself I'm making a pledge I do and
believe that which moves me towards my
goals period not when it's convenient
always and that becomes the guiding
light in my life
if the guiding light in your life is
that you only do and believe that which
moves you towards your goals when you
get into that loop of beating yourself
up and thinking that you're worthless or
that you're never gonna make it
remember that that belief does not serve
you and you don't do things that don't
serve you
and not to rat anybody out but do you
know how many people just today have
broke down in tears in front of me and
the punchline is always the same they
don't think they're gonna make it they
become convinced they're more lost than
other people they're less capable than
other people that while other people are
going to have these beautiful lives not
them here's the irony everyone feels
that way everyone goes through moments
of doubt and despair so you need
something to protect your mindset
against that loop because it will chip
away at you and the belief is very
simple you don't do things that don't
serve you
and that brings us to adaptability we've
got a video about this I want you guys
to watch this because understanding how
to begin to change yourself how to begin
to change the narrative that you're
living with this is the way out let's
watch the video now here's the bad news
you can adapt in a good way you can
adapt in a bad way like he said in the
video he adapted to life as an addict he
adapted to life in prison and it's all
too easy to find comfort in familiarity
to adapt to something that is deeply
unpleasant and to remain stuck there and
as I was talking when we had bow on
stage about how you have these moments
to break through and what it's really
going to take for you to get to that
next level it's to understand that the
person that you are has gotten you as
far as it's ever going to get you so
you've got to become a new person you
literally have to adapt now the great
news is like we talked to my first talk
that is what humans are wired to do
humans are the ultimate adaptation
machine the reason that we are the only
species that you can find in every
corner of the globe at one point James
Cameron was literally at the bottom of
the Marianas Trench
we have sent human beings to the moon we
are going to send human beings to Mars
and the reason we're going to be able to
do that is we can adapt to our
surroundings there was a woman who swam
the Bering Strait really think about
this the Bering Strait is the space
between Russia and Alaska so you can
imagine it's not quite a swim in the
Bahamas to make the swim she had to
change her fat from what's known as
white adipose tissue to brown fat brown
fat is more thermogenic so it actually
kicks off
Pete to do that for over a year she had
to expose herself routinely to cold
temperatures sleeping in the winters in
Alaska with the window open but in doing
that she actually put her body through
an adaptation response her body got the
message adapt or die so it adapted and
when you're willing to put yourself
under those kinds of stresses to become
that new thing you want to become to be
the new person that you want to be to go
farther than anyone you know has ever
gone to be the [__] goat it is
possible but it demands a price it
demands a price and what this weekend is
about it's about you deciding for
yourself where do you want to go and
what price are you willing to pay to get
there there's no right answer there's no
wrong answer
there's just clarity there's just
clarity don't judge yourself if you
don't want to play on a world stage
don't judge yourself if you're not
willing to pay an extraordinary price
just get de clarity of what you want and
what you need to do to get there when
you do that then you're going to be able
to construct a narrative about who you
are and that narrative becomes
everything I've often said the point of
life the meaning of all this chasing
your doing is one simple thing how do
you feel about yourself when you're by
yourself I know a lot of people that
fear that quiet I know a lot of people
that don't want to be alone with
themselves and the reason they don't
want to be alone with themselves is
because they don't think they're
worthwhile they're not happy with who
they are
that's what adaptation is about if
you're not happy with who you are then
let's step into the ownership of that
let's remember that's our
faul there's no one else to blame for
that the people that did horrible things
to you are not to blame for that
because if they are there's nothing you
can do but if you're the owner of that
in fact don't even worry about the word
blame you're in control that's what this
is about it's about retaining control
it's about knowing that you own your
life and at any time if you want a
different outcome you can make different
decisions you can do different things
you can start a new narrative and once
you begin that new narrative you realize
the power that's in that to take you
where you want to go but it begins with
identifying what is your goal once you
have your goal then you can work
backwards to what you need to do in
order to accomplish that goal and that
is the chasm of adaptation it's the
acquisition of skillset it's getting
better at something it's becoming
capable of something that you weren't
capable of before but that change the
fear of the unknown is the thing that
paralyzes people so I want to go back to
what I said earlier you all meet minimum
requirements and I really mean that I
don't want you to wonder if somebody
believes in you I believe in you I've
seen a lot of people reach for the stars
and fail I've seen a lot of people reach
for the stars and make it I have a
pretty good sense of what it takes for
people to get there so when I say that
you guys meet minimum requirements I
really mean it and I want that to
liberate you but what I wanted to
liberate you to do is to figure out why
it's not enough because I didn't just
change anyone's life with that phrase
but I should have that should be all you
need to know but there are other things
stuck in your perception of who you are
in the lens by which you view this world
that convinces you that you can't make
it and now in
moment where I'm hoping the people that
are left here right now are the diehard
[__] that are gonna make change
no matter what I want some people to
step forward and I want you to tell me
what you're afraid of
I want to know why you don't think
you're gonna make it we have a brave
soul let's hear it yeah give it up for
that I'm afraid of getting to the end of
my life
and realizing that I did not become the
best version of myself knowing that I
got to the very end of my life and I did
not accomplish every single thing I know
I believe in my heart my deserves have I
know the only thing that's stopping me
myself I love that I think that's the
right fear and I think all of us should
have some form of that fear which if you
didn't hear is to have a vision of the
person you could become and to reach the
pearly gates as it were see who you
could have been contrasted with who you
actually are and be disappointed by the
gap between them and I love chasing that
I think it's a beautiful chase but what
I hope you guys will do if you ever find
yourself at the pearly gates
disappointed in how much farther you
could have gone to simply ask one
question of yourself every day did I
give it my all today doesn't mean you're
always gonna win yeah if your life is a
series of [__] yes I did you've won
you've won guys the struggle is
guaranteed the struggle is guaranteed
the struggle is guaranteed the success
is not and like the thing that I beg you
guys is to have the guts to fail it's
something that you love and when you
were on the mud on your face and people
are laughing that I told you so's are
coming out that you remember one simple
fact you loved what you were doing and
you left it out on the field what the
[__] else is there legitimately like I'm
getting emotional what the [__] else is
there what more can you ask of yourself
than to really [__] try to really say
I give a [__] about this
that's the life to live that's the life
like to say I care about this it matters
it gives me purpose I'm gonna fight for
this this is a group of people I want to
serve and I'm gonna go all the way out
every day and look you're not gonna hit
it every day there's gonna be days where
you're off there's gonna be days where
you're weak weak but if that day instead
of bullshitting yourself instead of
saying I wasn't weak today what are you
talking about if that day you [__]
own it and you say yeah I was weak today
and I'm not gonna be weak tomorrow but
I'm not afraid to face that I'm not
afraid to accept that I'm not perfect
I'm not afraid to look in the mirror and
say today was a bad day that I didn't
make myself proud today but that
shouldn't diminish who you are
it shouldn't diminish your view of
yourself why because I wouldn't serve
you because if you beat yourself up
today you make it harder for you to be
rad tomorrow it's a game that has to be
seen in total it's not a game where you
can take a [__] snapshot and this is
like what I want you guys to understand
in one moment I've looked like a fool so
many [__] times I can't count but
when I look at my life in ten year
chunks I'm freaked out by what I've
accomplished
so I'm okay if I don't become the
ultimate version of what I could become
but I won't tolerate not trying well
some of my limiting beliefs are that I'm
not good enough
and I don't deserve the success that I
have right now so I keep fighting those
limiting beliefs in my mind all right
they are getting better that little
speech actually helped a ton but it's am
I ever gonna be good enough and am i
worthy of this success so this is one of
the most common refrains ever worth
being good enough being right being
smart because these are very fragile
ways to think of yourself and I
understand the temptation because it
feels really good when you do feel
worthy it feels really good when you are
right it feels really good to actually
be the best at something but the truth
of the world just the truth of the world
it is this way you're always going to
encounter somebody better stronger
faster more pious more worthy more
whatever so if you live in a world of
comparison it will rob you of your joy
even people who like Michael Jordan if
you put him right now up against most
rookies the rookies gonna win rookies
younger faster hungrier Michael's just
lost the stab he's gotten old so if he
were trying to make his life about his
glory in that period let's say he lives
80 years if he's living for the glory of
20 years that's the most heartbreaking
life I can imagine so you're going to
move in and out of these moments where
you are a badass to where you're not a
badass don't value yourself for that
value yourself for something that is
anti fragile being smart being right
being good being worthy they are very
fragile thanks because sometimes you
won't be it simply is this way valuing
yourself for being a learner on the
other hand for trying that's anti
fragile because the more somebody
attacks you for being dumb but you build
your self-esteem around learning the
first thing I think when someone says
I'm dumb is awesome in
what way because I view myself in these
10 year windows and I know the same
people that were laughing at me
when I became an entrepreneur knew
nothing about it and I was who's the kid
in the server room and I was the only
one with an office that had no windows
and they were like nine other computers
in my room and nobody knew who I was and
the only contribution I made the phone
calls was to say goodbye at the end of a
conference call I'm not kidding
ten years later I own a billion-dollar
business who the [__] is laughing now
[Music]
but it only works because I didn't mind
looking stupid it only worked because I
wasn't asking myself whether I was
worthy or whether I deserved it I just
asked myself am i leaving it all out in
the field yes or no am i learning yes or
no and if I'm not I didn't go oh that
makes me a bad person I went I need to
change my actions to get a different
result and once you start thinking like
that and you literally value yourself
for how hard you're trying how much
you're learning how willing you are to
accept when you fall on your face that
you don't try to get out from under it
or campaign to convince people that
you're better than you really are
[__] on where you're at because once
you're real about it then you can make
progress but if your energy cycles go to
bullshitting yourself you'll never get
out of it um so for me it's my happiness
now I believe that's as happy as I can
be
and it's hard to realize that there is
progression and I make that progression
that it's not going through four years
of school to make that percussion it's
actively participating in my own life
and being able to bounce back and forth
between those as a human
dude that's wrong thank you for that by
the way please
honor that
that was beautiful so here's the thing
about happiness happiness is by nature
transient happiness is also a
neurochemical state and for me to get
out from under my brain I finally had to
understand that neuro chemistry is
fickle and it changes from one minute to
the next in fact who's ever had a day in
the same day where you thought I'm so
[__] amazing
like this [__] is crazy for real are
other people this good at anything like
I'm the [__] and then I'm not joking
forty minutes later you're like oh [__]
man I am [__] I can't believe I'm
never gonna succeed like this is a joke
I'm a total piece of [__] who's ever
been there alright
that's essentially universal hands in
the air so just know the next time that
you have one of those down moments
remember everybody else is feeling that
the joke is on all of us we're all
feeling it but we think we're the only
ones so we hide it so we get these loops
about happiness look happiness comes and
goes it's super transient you're gonna
feel it one minute you're not gonna feel
it the next that is the nature of things
burn that notion into your head that is
the nature of things all right well if I
know that it's there if I know that it's
predictable then I'm not gonna let it
whip me into a frenzy
I know that as I'm sure mr. J Shetty
would say this too shall pass
learn that phrase and learn it well this
too shall pass the highs will pass the
lows will pass so don't focus on
happiness
it's too transient focus on fulfillment
fulfillment is defined very simply you
work very hard for a set of skills that
have meaning to you you care about them
in and of themselves and those skills
that you have worked so hard to obtain
they allow you to serve not only
yourself but others that's the key to
making this highly social animal
fulfilled and to have something that
sustains a
time fulfilment is born of suffering
it's born of doing the hard things so
even in those dark moments you can see
beauty you can experience the joy of
being alive you can experience the joy
of having loved ones because it endures
fulfillment in doors now you're not
gonna feel the neurochemical high of it
all the time but when you look inward
and ask yourself am i busting my ass to
serve not only myself but others if the
answer is yes it's really hard to keep
feeling badly about yourself focus on
fulfillment and you will make yourself
impervious to the sways that is
happiness mine is at the single father
of three beautiful girls I have limited
time with them I want to know if I'm
giving everything I can that they'll
that I'm making an impact and I'm always
worried that what little time that I
have do they feel loved do they feel
value am i instilling that in them and
that's my biggest thing is everything I
doing is a drive to be able to progress
in life or I can make the best out of
them where they have value in themselves
so here's the great news for all the
parents in the audience you're going to
[__] it up and all of your parents
[__] it up but you can make them feel
loved man and at the end of the day I
will tell you this right now my mom
[__] up so much it is crazy but I
never doubted that she loved me not once
and because of that I had a rock now
here's the truth about taking risks and
everyone in this room is willing to take
risks that's why you're willing to dream
that's why you guys are going to execute
against that and the way to take risks
is to have a very safe and stable home
life you're gonna make mistakes man
and it's okay you're gonna learn from
those mistakes and you're gonna get
better and as long as the thing that
sits at the core of your relationship to
those little girls is dad loves us
nothing else matters
if you make them feel that dude
everything else will be irrelevant if
you get them into the world knowing that
they are loved at an absurd level
everything's going to be okay I can't do
something can't do something that's just
something I told myself and myself
talked negative self-talk and then I got
to a point where it's like I can and I
can do this
but the can didn't become something that
was deep it wasn't based I think on a
solid foundation because I have the fear
of thinking now that it's not that I
can't the fear is that I can so I'm
trying to break through they can so
that's where I am right now I love that
and I think that's the right fear once
you realize you meet minimum
requirements you should be afraid okay I
can and now it's all a question of am I
actually going to do it and am I going
to follow through with it and then I'm
gonna say to you you're focused on the
wrong thing because it doesn't matter if
you're ever successful because truly and
to give you guys a little bit of my
background I went from scrounging in my
couch cushions to find enough change to
put gas in my car to helping build this
technology company I was hired as a
copywriter and I worked my way up I
became a multi-millionaire inside that
company on paper and I was miserable
miserable and I thought this is a joke
I'm living the cliche of money can't buy
happiness what the [__] how many people
had to say it and I still didn't believe
it like how many people literally have
to tell you money is not going to give
you the thing that you want I've had
every opportunity up here to be like
yeah [__] get rich that [__] as
cool as hell and here's the thing people
will chase money forever why because
it's real
money Israel money is powerful but
money's not at all what you think it is
you think when it comes to success like
getting there making it achieving it the
way that you see somebody that's
achieved it now however you define that
and you look at them and you think oh my
god they're amazing you think you're
gonna think the same thing about
yourself and you won't and I had the
very good fortune my wealth came all at
once I built a company I had tons of
equity in the company I was worth
hundreds of millions of dollars on paper
but I was still driving a beat-up car
and my life was whatever I was in a
normal house I was making a good salary
no need to feel sorry for me but in
terms of like the wealth moment it
literally came in an instant it was all
right guys the money's been wired and
you hit refresh on your bank account
refresh refresh refresh refresh refresh
refresh refresh and then BAM you're
[__] crazy rich and it's like commas
and zeros and you're like holy [__] I
don't feel any differently about myself
and all of my insecurities all the
things that I beat myself up for all of
it still right here it literally didn't
change anything I could buy neither
stuff but the only thing like if you
want to know what money really does
money lets you build I'm building impact
Theory I'm going to win because I have
the intensity and I have the capital
that's money but money doesn't touch who
you are so my thing is I make a broke
building impact theory that that is a
reality because I know the struggles
guaranteed the success isn't so it's
very possible I'm betting my fortune
right now on building this thing maybe
it doesn't work but that won't touch how
I feel about myself losing the money
won't touch how I feel about myself any
more than making the money couldn't
touch how I felt about myself because
you either do the internal work of like
I Know Who I am the thing that you'll
resent isn't whether or not you make it
the thing you'll resent is now that you
know you can will you actually try
trying is what you're going to judge
yourself on
hey don't share on that that should have
scary that's the one I want you guys to
think about today because none of you
your family won't weep for you if you
don't succeed two things will happen on
your deathbed if you failed you really
went for something and you failed one
they will all mourn that you weren't
able to live your life because you were
so myopically focused on the goal that
you forgot to enjoy the journey and
somewhere along the way you stopped
loving you stop loving them you stopped
loving yourself because all you could
see was succeeding getting that thing
the tick on the paper box and you lost
your way
that's possibility number one
possibility number two as they're like a
this [__] tried and it was
inspiring and just to see them go day
after day after day in the face of so
much defeat but to have the will and
determination to keep going Winston
Churchill said and I quote success is
going from failure to failure to failure
without a loss of enthusiasm it doesn't
matter if you win that's not success the
success is going from the failure to the
failure to the failure and still being
excited to show up it's like this is how
I like in success success is like love
you know the beautiful part about love
getting the [__] kicked out of you and
then coming back for more that's so
hopeful that's so optimistic to be like
whoa I just had my ass handed to me and
yet I want to be vulnerable again I want
to go through this again I want to open
myself up to this I want to be touched
by that I want to feel that [__]
people can get behind that man we can
get excited about that we want to be
friends with people like that we want to
feel that in our own lives that
willingness to to obtain stood defeat
and still come in open and not jaded how
beautiful is that
so I promise the only thing you will
ever judge yourself for is whether or
not you tried
and since succeeding doesn't matter you
might as well try all right this red
things been haunting me for a while so
unfortunately we're gonna have to rap
but I'm gonna make you guys a promise
first of all stay tonight so anybody
that wants to stay hang out get photos
signatures ask questions I will do it as
long as they'll leave my mic on I'll
stay but for vocal reasons because I
have a full day tomorrow I can't be
shouting so if they'll leave my mic on
I'll stay until they shut it off and
then tomorrow as promised I will not go
to bed if that's what it takes I will
answer every single question you guys
have because by then my official
speaking obligation would be over so if
I lose my voice so be it I will stay
until every question is answered every
photo was taken everything that you want
to learn figure out whatever is done
okay so I'm way honored that you guys
were willing to step to the mic that
means a lot to me but for now we're
gonna have to rap remember guys the only
thing that matters what do you think
about yourself when you by yourself go
out and try man
[Applause]